Requirement:

Exercise 1
For this exercise, you'll work through the basics of HTML and CSS by building a basic Music App UI.

Throughout the course you'll build on this Playlist, slowly adding more functionality as each week passes.

Prerequisites

If you haven't written any HTML and CSS before, I recommend going through a tutorial first (See Greg Baker's Intro to the Web Study Guide).

You should also make sure you have a code editor for HTML and CSS. I recommend using Atom or Sublime Text.

Getting started

Download this page skeleton to get started. It contains Bootstrap 3 (I recommend reading through the Bootstrap documentation), an HTML/CSS framework that contains a layout system and a variety of components and icons.

Although you're free to use any HTML/CSS Framework you'd like (or skip the framework all together).

Task

Your objective is to convert the following mockups into a working webpage:

Playlist Mockup

All of the icons in this mock were pulled from Bootstrap's free fonts, which you can look at here.

The square boxes are meant to be images for the playlists. Feel free to get creative! But if you don't want to you can just use grey boxes too ⬜️.

✅ Requirements Checklist

Make sure the width matches the device width (hint: see "Responsive Design" slides from class). 0.5 mark
HTML must be semantic - that means the elements used should correctly describe their content, and no presentational elements or attributes may be used (for example, `<b>`, `<i>`, `<div style="color: blue;">`, etc). All of the appearance should be written with CSS. 1 mark
When your playlist.html file is loaded in the browser, it must look the same as the mocks above (although does not need to be perfect down to the last pixel). 5 marks
The header bar must remain at the top of the page - please demonstrate this by having enough songs on the page that the page must scroll down (hint: see `position: fixed` for the header, and `overflow: scroll` for the list of songs). 0.5 mark
When clicking on a playlist, the background of that row should become a darker shade of purple (hint: look into the `:active` selector to do this in CSS without the use of JavaScript). 1 mark
Layout must look correct on a variety of mobile screen sizes (hint: use the device toolbar in Chrome DevTools to emulate iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, and Nexus 5X). 1 mark
Passing the HTML into an HTML Validator should return no warnings or errors. 1 mark.
Total: 10 marks
